This is one of multiple videos I discuss not on network address translation in this video answering
a question from Pedro who's attending my and three CCNY course
this is the inside the global address.
In other words this is the address of that PC.
This is the address of that PC when traffic is sent on to the Internet.
So let's do a telnet to 8 8 8 1.
Let's configure the server for telnet.
At the moment it's a trans port input.
None Summerset transport input.
Telnet back on Grada 3.
Can we telnet to 8 8 8 1.
Yes we can.
And we were on Route 1.
Now can we ping 8 8 8 8 to 2.
No we can't
camping 8 8 8 2 3.
No we can't those addresses don't exist.
So at the moment we've got one NAT translation this one.
What I'll do now is create another one for the real IP address of the host inside local tendered one
or two to two and will set the global IP address 2 8 8 8 8 or 2 and make that extendable IP net inside
source.
Let's do the same for 3.3 and then get to that address.
So show IP net TRANSLATION We have three net increase in the net table at the moment there are no outside
local outside global entries because no traffic is being initiated by the PC to those servers.
But if we now ping this address which didn't work in the past it now works and the same is true for
8 8 8 8 or 3.
So we are getting some simply because there let's all that say 8 8 8 8 2 3 works and or two works.
And if we look at the net translations we can see the ICMP translations in the table here.
I see it may be a little bit more difficult to read.
So let me do a telnet softshell at it from the PC to the server and notice we can see that the destination
port is 23 source port from the this PC is a random port number.
So this is the NAT translation for the telnet session the IP that you fight into here.
You should see translations.
There we go.
And then I'll just type some characters noticed we're getting at translations a source of 8 8 8 8 8
4 2 8 8 8 and 1 means that the destination address is translated to 10 that wandered 1 to 1 and then
it's translated back for the reverse traffic.
OK so in summary.
So run pipe including that to set up a network such as this where you have multiple internal servers
and you want them to be accessible from the Internet.
One way to set this up is to create an individual static and not entry per server.
This is the real IP address configured on the device.
In other words that's the address that's being configured on the device it's called the inside local
address.
This is the inside global address.
This is the Nottage or virtual IP address associated with this physical IP address configured on the
device.
So Pedro I'm hoping that answers your question.
I also hope that this helps everyone else.
If you enjoy this video please like it please subscribe to my YouTube channel.
I wish you all the very best.